So we got a question in the class.
What is Volta and
how does it relate to NVM?
So both of these tools aim
to allow a team to define,
we're using this version
of node in our project.
And this is useful if you have, some
things that may be legacy projects and
they're using an end of
life version of node.
Another project is using,
the latest stable release.
You wanna make sure that you
have the right tools for
the job in each of these projects and
you're not simply trying to find
one global version that you use
across everything you work on.
So both tools try to solve that problem.
The way NVM solves this problem is
by managing a set of environment
variables, right?
And that will tell you that will alter
your path effectively as you change from
folder to folder,
go from project to project.
Volta does things a bit differently.
With Volta it actually
will replace node your
global node command with
a shim that allows it to,
when invoked download
the right version on the fly.
So there are no setup commands and
there's no overhead cuz this thing
is volt has written in rust.
So there's maybe like a single digit
number of milliseconds added overhead
instead of, running some JavaScript code
or running other things as more overhead.
So effectively,
it's like it's really lightweight.
It stays out of the way there
GitHub actions written for it so
it makes it really easy to use in CI.
And it works with yarn as well
it's not just about node.
So different versions of yarn matters,
especially if you get into things
like yarn workspaces and monorepos.
So it's just as important to solve
this problem in other tools as well,
and, this makes it really easy.
So, One way I can
demonstrate that this is
this is a different animal
than NVM is invoking command
as if it were global.
And I think what we'll see is volta
will choose the correct version to run
based on a global invocation that
is performed within a project.
So I'm gonna go out of my project
folder and I'm gonna run TSC and
let's see what version we have.
All right now,
just temporarily I'm going to downgrade
my version of the TypeScript compiler.
Let's do the figure 3.8 release.
Then we're gonna install that.
And what we should see
is if I go back here and
I see the version of the TypeScript
compiler I'm using, there's 403 and
if I go within my project,
let's see if this works.
There we go.
So what, we see here is I can just
run TSC I can forget volta is even
installed on my system and
it's choosing the latest 3.x release,
right, that little carret
means I flip forward to 3.9.
If you're using NVM, it wouldn't have
solved the problem in this way would only
be worried about node and nodes version.
But here I can have a global installation,
I can run it as if it's global.
But because I'm in
the context of a project and
that project has a specified
version of the typescript compiler,
has a specified version of node and yarn,
things are gonna just kinda wire up.
And, my intent is,
I wanna run this in this workspace,
and it should be this version
even though I'm running TSC.
I don't have to run yarn TSC, for
example, that's a big difference.
I'm gonna undo this change real quick.
>> And in chat people are asking if
you can use NVM instead of yarn.
>> All right, so
I would highly recommend using yarn you're
welcome to try NVM if you have issues,
then my first the first thing I'm gonna
ask you to do is try to use yarn.
Here's why.
I have a yarn.lock file here.
So I've specified some versions of
dependencies, particularly if you're
watching a recorded version of this
course, there may be newer versions of
these dependencies available, if you
were to just install all of them fresh.
This lock file is very important, because
what works for me is the exact versions
in that lock file and only if you're using
yarn, will that lock file be honored.
If you use NVM, you're just gonna
get the latest of everything.
So I would really recommend
that you use yarn.
If you have a strong preference, the good
news is yarn is not really an important
aspect of what we're gonna
be working with today.
>> Yeah, I think the question was more
around yarn and volta or sorry NVM and
volta, if you're wanting
to use volta with NVM.
>> Understood, all right,
so the question is,
does volta do the same thing for
NVM that it does for yarn?
The answer's yes.